---
layout: post
title: java.util
---


> 종류 - 패키지
>
> 모듈 - java.base

연관 패키지

* java.util.concurrent - 병렬 프로그래밍에 보통 쓰이는 유틸리티 클래스들을 지원
* java.util.function - 타입과 람다 표현식과 메소드 레퍼런스를 제공하는 함수적 인터페이스 지원
* java.util.jar - 표준 ZIP포맷과 설정파일로 만들어진 JAR파일에 대한 읽기/쓰기 지원
* java.util.logging - 자바2플랫폼의 핵심 로깅 클래스와 인터페이스 제공
* java.util.prefs - 어플리케이션이 유저/시스템 설정데이터에 접근하도록 지원
* java.util.random - RNG에 대한 API를 지원하는 클래스와 인터페이스 지원
* java.util.regex - 정규식으로 표현된 문자열에 대한 처리를 도와주는 클래스들을 제공
* java.util.spi - java.util 패키지의 서비스 제공자 클래스
* java.util.stream - 객체의 스트림에 대한 함수적 연산을 도와주는 클래스들을 제공 (Map축소변환과 같은)
* java.util.zip - ZIP과 GZIP포맷에 대한 읽기/쓰기를 지원하는 클래스를 제공

인터페이스

* Collection<E> - collection 기반 루트 인터페이스.
* Comparator<T> - collection에 대한 전체적인 비교 함수 인터페이스.
* Deque<E> - Double Ended Queue의 줄임말로, 양쪽 끝에서 삽입 및 삭제를 지원하는 큐 콜렉션이다.
* Enumeration<E> - 일련의 요소를 하나씩 생성해주는 인터페이스. 해당 기능을 전부 포함하며, 추가적인 기능을 가지고 있는 Iterator 사용 추천한다.
* EventListener - 모든 이벤트 리스너가 반드시 상속(extend)해야하는 태깅 인터페이스.
* Formattable - Formatter의 's'변환 형식자를 사용하여 커스텀 변환을 사용하는 클래스가 반드시 상속(implement)해야 하는 인터페이스.
* Iterator<E> - 컬렉션에 대한 반복을 처리하는 인터페이스다.
* List<E> - 순서가 지정된 컬렉션(혹은 시퀀스.)
* ListIterator<E> - 프로그래머가 리스트를 어떤 방향으로든 이동하고, 수정하고, 현재 위치를 알아낼 수 있도록 도와주는 인터페이스.
* Map<K,V> - 키에 값을 저장(매핑)하는 개체.
* Map.Entry<K,V> 맵 항목(키 - 값 쌍), Map의 한 개체를 자료형처럼 사용할 때 사용함.
* NavigableMap<K,V> - 주어진 대상을 검색 후, 가장 가까운 항목을 반환하는 SortedMap이다.
* NavigableSet<E> - 주어진 대상을 검색 후, 가장 가까운 항목을 알려주는 SortedSet이다.
* Observer - 더 이상 사용되지 않음.
* PrimitiveIterator<T,T_CONS> - 특화된 반복자(Iterator)에 대한 기본 타입. int나 long, double등의 타입에 대해 특화된 반복자에 대한 인터페이스다. 첫번째 인자로는 래퍼클래스(Integer 등)이 들어간다.
* PrimitiveIterator.OfDouble - double값에 특화된 반복자.
* PrimitiveIterator.OfInt - int값에 특화된 반복자.
* PrimitiveIterator.OfLong - long값에 특화된 반복자.
* Queue<E> - 큐, 처리를 하기 전 요소를 잡고 있도록(보유하도록) 설계된 컬렉션.
* RandomAccess - Marker인터페이스는 빠른 랜덤 액세스(시간상수 등)를 지원하기 위한 리스트 상속(implement)에 사용된다.
* ServiceLoader.Provider<S> - ServiceLoader로 찾은 서비스 공급자를 보여준다.
* Set<E> - 중복되는 요소가 없는 컬렉션.
* SortedMap<K,V> - 키의 순서를 가지고 있는 맵(Map).
* SortedSet<E> - 요소의 순서를 가지고 있는 Set.
* Spliterator<T> - 원본의 요소를 탐색하고 분할하는 객체다.
* Spliterator.OfDouble - double값에 특화된 Spliterator이다.
* Spliterator.OfInt - int값에 특화된 Spliterator이다.
* Spliterator.OfLong - long값에 특화된 Spliterator이다.
* Spliterator.OfPrimitive<T,T_CONS,T_SPLITR extends Spliterator.OfPrimitive<T,T_CONS,T_SPLITR>> - 특화된 Spliterator이다.

클래스

* AbstractCollection<E> This class provides a skeletal implementation of the Collection interface, to minimize the effort required to implement this interface.
* AbstractList<E> This class provides a skeletal implementation of the List interface to minimize the effort required to implement this interface backed by a "random access" data store (such as an array).
* AbstractMap<K,V> This class provides a skeletal implementation of the Map interface, to minimize the effort required to implement this interface.
* AbstractMap.SimpleEntry<K,V> An Entry maintaining a key and a value.
* AbstractMap.SimpleImmutableEntry<K,V> An unmodifiable Entry maintaining a key and a value.
* AbstractQueue<E> This class provides skeletal implementations of some Queue operations.
* AbstractSequentialList<E> This class provides a skeletal implementation of the List interface to minimize the effort required to implement this interface backed by a "sequential access" data store (such as a linked list).
* AbstractSet<E> This class provides a skeletal implementation of the Set interface to minimize the effort required to implement this interface.
* ArrayDeque<E> Resizable-array implementation of the Deque interface.
* ArrayList<E> Resizable-array implementation of the List interface.
* Arrays This class contains various methods for manipulating arrays (such as sorting and searching).
* Base64 This class consists exclusively of static methods for obtaining encoders and decoders for the Base64 encoding scheme.
* Base64.Decoder This class implements a decoder for decoding byte data using the Base64 encoding scheme as specified in RFC 4648 and RFC 2045.
* Base64.Encoder This class implements an encoder for encoding byte data using the Base64 encoding scheme as specified in RFC 4648 and RFC 2045.
* BitSet This class implements a vector of bits that grows as needed.
* Calendar The Calendar class is an abstract class that provides methods for converting between a specific instant in time and a set of calendar fields such as YEAR, MONTH, DAY_OF_MONTH, HOUR, and so on, and for manipulating the calendar fields, such as getting the date of the next week.
* Calendar.Builder Calendar.Builder is used for creating a Calendar from various date-time parameters.
* Collections This class consists exclusively of static methods that operate on or return collections.
* Currency Represents a currency.
* Date The class Date represents a specific instant in time, with millisecond precision.
* Dictionary<K,V> The Dictionary class is the abstract parent of any class, such as Hashtable, which maps keys to values.
* DoubleSummaryStatistics A state object for collecting statistics such as count, min, max, sum, and average.
* EnumMap<K extends Enum<K>,V> A specialized Map implementation for use with enum type keys.
* EnumSet<E extends Enum<E>> A specialized Set implementation for use with enum types.
* EventListenerProxy<T extends EventListener> An abstract wrapper class for an EventListener class which associates a set of additional parameters with the listener.
* EventObject The root class from which all event state objects shall be derived.
* FormattableFlags FormattableFlags are passed to the Formattable.formatTo() method and modify the output format for Formattables.
* Formatter An interpreter for printf-style format strings.
* GregorianCalendar GregorianCalendar is a concrete subclass of Calendar and provides the standard calendar system used by most of the world.
* HashMap<K,V> Hash table based implementation of the Map interface.
* HashSet<E> This class implements the Set interface, backed by a hash table (actually a HashMap instance).
* Hashtable<K,V> This class implements a hash table, which maps keys to values.
* HexFormat HexFormat converts between bytes and chars and hex-encoded strings which may include additional formatting markup such as prefixes, suffixes, and delimiters.
* IdentityHashMap<K,V> This class implements the Map interface with a hash table, using reference-equality in place of object-equality when comparing keys (and values).
* IntSummaryStatistics A state object for collecting statistics such as count, min, max, sum, and average.
* LinkedHashMap<K,V> Hash table and linked list implementation of the Map interface, with predictable iteration order.
* LinkedHashSet<E> Hash table and linked list implementation of the Set interface, with predictable iteration order.
* LinkedList<E> Doubly-linked list implementation of the List and Deque interfaces.
* ListResourceBundle ListResourceBundle is an abstract subclass of ResourceBundle that manages resources for a locale in a convenient and easy to use list.
* Locale A Locale object represents a specific geographical, political, or cultural region.
* Locale.Builder Builder is used to build instances of Locale from values configured by the setters.
* Locale.LanguageRange This class expresses a Language Range defined in RFC 4647 Matching of Language Tags.
* LongSummaryStatistics A state object for collecting statistics such as count, min, max, sum, and average.
* Objects This class consists of static utility methods for operating on objects, or checking certain conditions before operation.
* Observable Deprecated.
* This class and the Observer interface have been deprecated.
* Optional<T> A container object which may or may not contain a non-null value.
* OptionalDouble A container object which may or may not contain a double value.
* OptionalInt A container object which may or may not contain an int value.
* OptionalLong A container object which may or may not contain a long value.
* PriorityQueue<E> An unbounded priority queue based on a priority heap.
* Properties The Properties class represents a persistent set of properties.
* PropertyPermission This class is for property permissions.
* PropertyResourceBundle PropertyResourceBundle is a concrete subclass of ResourceBundle that manages resources for a locale using a set of static strings from a property file.
* Random An instance of this class is used to generate a stream of pseudorandom numbers; its period is only 248.
* ResourceBundle Resource bundles contain locale-specific objects.
* ResourceBundle.Control ResourceBundle.Control defines a set of callback methods that are invoked by the ResourceBundle.getBundle factory methods during the bundle loading process.
* Scanner A simple text scanner which can parse primitive types and strings using regular expressions.
* ServiceLoader<S> A facility to load implementations of a service.
* SimpleTimeZone SimpleTimeZone is a concrete subclass of TimeZone that represents a time zone for use with a Gregorian calendar.
* Spliterators Static classes and methods for operating on or creating instances of Spliterator and its primitive specializations Spliterator.OfInt, Spliterator.OfLong, and Spliterator.OfDouble.
* Spliterators.AbstractDoubleSpliterator An abstract Spliterator.OfDouble that implements trySplit to permit limited parallelism.
* Spliterators.AbstractIntSpliterator An abstract Spliterator.OfInt that implements trySplit to permit limited parallelism.
* Spliterators.AbstractLongSpliterator An abstract Spliterator.OfLong that implements trySplit to permit limited parallelism.
* Spliterators.AbstractSpliterator<T> An abstract Spliterator that implements trySplit to permit limited parallelism.
* SplittableRandom A generator of uniform pseudorandom values (with period 264) applicable for use in (among other contexts) isolated parallel computations that may generate subtasks.
* Stack<E> The Stack class represents a last-in-first-out (LIFO) stack of objects.
* StringJoiner StringJoiner is used to construct a sequence of characters separated by a delimiter and optionally starting with a supplied prefix and ending with a supplied suffix.
* StringTokenizer The string tokenizer class allows an application to break a string into tokens.
* Timer A facility for threads to schedule tasks for future execution in a background thread.
* TimerTask A task that can be scheduled for one-time or repeated execution by a Timer.
* TimeZone TimeZone represents a time zone offset, and also figures out daylight savings.
* TreeMap<K,V> A Red-Black tree based NavigableMap implementation.
* TreeSet<E> A NavigableSet implementation based on a TreeMap.
* UUID A class that represents an immutable universally unique identifier (UUID).
* Vector<E> The Vector class implements a growable array of objects.
* WeakHashMap<K,V> Hash table based implementation of the Map interface, with weak keys.

이넘

* Formatter.BigDecimalLayoutForm - BigDecimal(큰 소숫점)에 대한 포맷
* Locale.Category - 지역 카테고리
* Locale.FilteringMode - 지역 선택 방법
* Locale.IsoCountryCode - ISO 3166에 대한 지역코드

예외

* ConcurrentModificationException This exception may be thrown by methods that have detected concurrent modification of an object when such modification is not permissible.
* DuplicateFormatFlagsException Unchecked exception thrown when duplicate flags are provided in the format specifier.
* EmptyStackException Thrown by methods in the Stack class to indicate that the stack is empty.
* FormatFlagsConversionMismatchException Unchecked exception thrown when a conversion and flag are incompatible.
* FormatterClosedException Unchecked exception thrown when the formatter has been closed.
* IllegalFormatCodePointException Unchecked exception thrown when a character with an invalid Unicode code point as defined by Character.isValidCodePoint(int) is passed to the Formatter.
* IllegalFormatConversionException Unchecked exception thrown when the argument corresponding to the format specifier is of an incompatible type.
* IllegalFormatException Unchecked exception thrown when a format string contains an illegal syntax or a format specifier that is incompatible with the given arguments.
* IllegalFormatFlagsException Unchecked exception thrown when an illegal combination flags is given.
* IllegalFormatPrecisionException Unchecked exception thrown when the precision is a negative value other than -1, the conversion does not support a precision, or the value is otherwise unsupported.
* IllegalFormatWidthException Unchecked exception thrown when the format width is a negative value other than -1 or is otherwise unsupported.
* IllformedLocaleException Thrown by methods in Locale and Locale.Builder to indicate that an argument is not a well-formed BCP 47 tag.
* InputMismatchException Thrown by a Scanner to indicate that the token retrieved does not match the pattern for the expected type, or that the token is out of range for the expected type.
* InvalidPropertiesFormatException Thrown to indicate that an operation could not complete because the input did not conform to the appropriate XML document type for a collection of properties, as per the Properties specification.
* MissingFormatArgumentException Unchecked exception thrown when there is a format specifier which does not have a corresponding argument or if an argument index refers to an argument that does not exist.
* MissingFormatWidthException Unchecked exception thrown when the format width is required.
* MissingResourceException Signals that a resource is missing.
* NoSuchElementException Thrown by various accessor methods to indicate that the element being requested does not exist.
* TooManyListenersException The TooManyListenersException Exception is used as part of the Java Event model to annotate and implement a unicast special case of a multicast Event Source.
* UnknownFormatConversionException Unchecked exception thrown when an unknown conversion is given.
* UnknownFormatFlagsException Unchecked exception thrown when an unknown flag is given.

오류

* ServiceConfigurationError - 서비스 제공자를 찾거나, 로드하거나, 인스턴스화 중 문제가 생길 시 오류를 발생시킴.

>

----

ServiceConfigurationError - java.util.spi에 관련된 에러로 보인다.

Locale.FilteringMode - 예를 들어 ko와, ko_KR, ko-KR.UTF-8 등의 형식에 대한 Enum이다.
